Thank you very much, everyone. Again, we stand in our motivation, the attention. Of course we are
going to be collecting our mind to the Dharma.
Therefore, we are always, the teaching says, it's so important to start with your motivation and be
in that motivation state.
After we've concluded the sessions, and then also then you get married with that good intention or
good, beautiful motivation,
then everything is completely lined up, exactly what we like to be, or what we like to see resolved
, it really will come according to the teaching.
So therefore, compared to all those things, situations and circumstances, it's our kind of
responsibility in the way that we want to practice.
We like to get some good result, we like to benefit ourselves and other beings, and so for that
reason, this motivation is what is so important to any situations or any Dharma practices.
If we can keep this motivation all the time, then really good practitioners, good practitioners,
that means during meditation and also during boss meditation,
in a way, 24 hours, we can kind of turn in or to put on that on switch, that then really we are
excellent practitioners, and truly we will see the result, good benefit, good claims, our behaviors
,
behaviors of the activity of the body, behaviors of our speech, and then mind, really it will do
that. So therefore, again, his strength and the motivation, this beautiful motivation,
and that motivation, as I've always mentioned so many times, there are three motivations that I'm
highlighting there, and that is, first, it's joy and appreciation.
That is, joy and appreciation is all our situations and circumstances, what we are, who, what we
are, and what we are, and that is first.
And then the combined with that joy and appreciation, then bodhijata, vastness, motivation of the
bodhijata for all living beings, because we are practicing of the Mahayana,
and of course, we are practicing of the Buddha teaching, generally Buddha, particularly the Mahay
ana, and also Tantra Mahayana. So therefore, again, bodhijata is essence and foundation in the
central column of these practices.
And along with that, and then beauty, realization. As the Mahayana teaching always stated, every
day is enlightenment status. So kind of bring that also realization or say something, at least open
our attitude toward that, I'd like to explore that beautiful enlightenment, call it that, call it
that.
Having those taught, ah, like with motivation. With that motivation, then we are going to go to the
teaching itself, and teaching we are continually following as teaching by the Japji, the New Ramaji
teachings.
Had heart advice to the 14th ones. That is what we are following there. There. And this again, we
went, and that means myself, I went through that, kind of a little bit elaborated, and then we're
talking about the actualizing bodhijata practices.
There's also like in the Japji and the New Ramaji teachings, heart advice to the 14th ones, also
mentioned bodhijata, how important it is. It's one of the treasures of the practitioners, keeping
bodhijata in the heart and mind. So we are going again in bodhijata.
Bodhijata is reaching bodhijata and actualizing bodhijata. But reaching bodhijata is in our heart
and mind, that we again, we can keep that all the time, as much as we really can, all the time
actually.
That is really the excellent practices. Totally virtuous. It's dharma. It's so, so spiritual.
Because bodhijata is thinking of all living beings.
It has no condensations or contentment of the, what's called the, it has no stains. No stains of
the self-important. It is totally pure of love and kindness and compassion, compassion for all
living beings.
That is so, so real, so spiritual. That we can bodhijata when we were actualizing that, according
our capabilities and readiness, then those are known as six paramata practices.
And then there we went, six paramata. We actualized in bodhijata, six paramata, one after another,
those six paramata. Among the six paramata, we went, the four paramata already, and we are going
now, fifth paramata.
And the fifth paramata is the concentration of dhyam-paramata. Dhyam-paramata, concentration of dhy
am-paramata or some dhyam-paradha-champa, inescapable, some dhyam-paradha-champa, that we are going
now on that.
And in order to do that, also we discussed how important of this concentration, meditation, or this
paramata, the fifth paramata.
Because it is dealing steadily to the mind. And therefore, it is so, so important.
All our realizations and performance are really dependent upon how the stabilization, how our
stabilization of the mind is.
When our mind is more stabilized, more calm, more stable, realization comes. The fulfillment comes.
And all the beauty of the nature is really arising, arising from the deep opportunity of the mind.
And therefore, we don't have the stabilization of our mind. Its complete mind is below the way and
completely mixed up the turbulence of the conceptions on the surface.
Even though the beauty and the quality are within the nature of the mind, but yet it cannot come
out so easily.
Because of the turbulence of the conceptions, turbulence with thoughts that completely blow up in
all the turbulence.
Those turbulence, what are those? Like anxieties, worries, and the skeptical, doubt, and hes
itations related with all the negative emotions.
Those are raging back and forth, different ways. Load up, straight up, completely turbulence of the
space of our own peaceful mind, mental states.
That is turbulence. And because of that, we won't shine up. He didn't call it the mind. Mind for
that reason.
This concentration or this meditation, the end part of the matter, is the most important.
From there, every realization, every achievement, all the Buddha teaching comes with these
concentrations.
So for that reason, we discussed, I might win those, call it benefit and important, those I already
win, and of course you all know.
There are more details of this, how the mind is so important, how the mind is controlling
everything.
So many teachings, all the Buddha teachings, and particularly those practices, leanings,
instructions, teachings, really so clearly explain more targeted,
more practical, more elaborated, and kind of almost stated everywhere, you don't know how to kind
of bring, don't, more kind of like on the center, center light.
So all that, that's called big and stoking. So coming with more kind of target in that way, really
there's so many beautiful things.
I'm sure you read that, but I'm just, how important it is.
And then, in order to have the mind to more kind of bring, to accelerate, more calm and peaceful
way, how we do.
And that is then, we read what any teaching says, always have to have isolated, isolated.
In a debate, in a chate, vinbha, vinbha, vinbha, vinbha means isolation, or even I translate some
words, hermitage, hermit, hermit, isolations.
All kind of like more calm and peaceful ways, isolated, how we start.
That isolation has two, that is called isolation of the physical activities, isolation of the
mental activities, mental body activities.
This is too important for our to bring good meditation or good practice. Good practice, what I mean
there, I'm talking, practice such as visualization, meditation with visualization, meditation with
DD, meditations.
Or this repetition of mantras, those are the main practices, all these practices.
Today, we have to have good circumstances, and that circumstance is isolation.
And isolation of the, or hermitage of our body, hermitage of our mind.
If that suits the world with you, you can use that hermitage, otherwise, isolations. Or otherwise,
vinbha, vinbha, in a debate, all vinbha, lu vinbha, and si vinbha.
Two vinbha, two vinbha.
What is that really teaching said, when he is talking, how it said, lu nanda le vinbha, si nanto le
vinbha.
That's it. So, our two vinbhas, mind is isolated from all the conceptions, and body is isolated
from all the mundane activities.
That is the one true isolation. Therefore, to have that isolation, of the particular, related with
physical, physical exhalation, then go into the hermitage.
Hermitage, I mentioned, as teaching is for.
That hermitage is that call it, call it of the hermitage is clearly explained in the suttara alank
ara, on dho de ji, in the teaching, dho de ji, by bacteria, bacteria or the asaenga.
Asaenga, there is five points of when we are studying.
Then, and of course, you all know that.
That exhalation is one, mainly explaining about the exhalation of the body.
Body exhalations.
What a great master Kamala Shala said in his goal, the graduation technique of the middle, middle
book, first book, middle book, and third book, I mentioned, and many of you know that.
The three books, among that middle book, said that residing in the favorable places, that is one of
the cause of becoming successful meditation practices, favorable places.
That favorable places is the great master, I said, Madhira, explained that hermitage, five hermit
ages, those five qualities, are with one, up another.
I'm not going to repeat those again.
That we went yesterday, and you all know that.
So that is the hermitage.
After that, why did you do that? Because of trying to be distended from the isolation of the bursi,
mundane, regular, routine, habitual activities.
In order to that, you went to that hermitage.
And that is happening where you're in the city, for example, again as a serious hermitage. In the
teaching, he said, if favorable, meet you that way, then you can sit on the city too.
If you prefer, if it's more appealing, more peaceful, more nice, then you can do your practice
quite successfully and beautifully.
Then even the city is fine, otherwise, it's hermitage.
And hermitage, in the teaching, he said, what is hermitage, actually?
In the teaching, he said, it's about five miles, five miles from the city.
The city is considered as hermitage.
Actually, in the teaching, he said, the jangrajaks. So it's about five, maybe five miles, that is,
perhaps, in hermitage.
That is ancient style. And of course, that means outskirts of the cities.
That is, if that meets with the qualification explained in the teachings of the materials, in the
Shukra Alikara, or explained by the great master Kamashilas, people were placed, then that is her
mitage.
If that shifts. But even if five miles away of the city, if there's more business, more, they don't
meet hermitage.
So it's also kind of a polo with your own inner westerns, inner westerns, and practical, because we
like to be practical.
The Greek teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni, is very practical. Always in the teaching, he said, not too
extreme. Extreme, kind of extreme, practice extreme, real extreme, is not natural.
It's not natural. We're swinging too much back and forth. That's a duality. That's a publicity.
One great teacher with full common sense, practical, more drawn to the earth.
Way things are, who explained clearly as it is, that's what really he mentioned. No extremes.
Whether it's control, whether it's meditation, whether it's will, in the middle, that is middle.
Middle. Middle is also not just a kind of middle between, to swipe and leap. It's union. Together,
union. Everything is in union status.
To truth is a union. To accumulation, merit is a union. To resolve the chaos or the achievement is
union. There's no separation. The other thing is, that's what the great master, great teacher,
explained that.
So, therefore, that is the favorable places. That is, again, what I'm trying to highlight, that is
isolation of the physical from the activity of the mindings.
Then, the most important, once you've got that, which you have the isolation of the physical from
the mundane activity of the worldly chores, then isolation of the mind from the conception. That is
the most important.
That you need anywhere. We need that when you meditate in practices. Whether you're sitting in city
, whether you're sitting in a hermitage in holy caves, sacred caves and mountains, we have to have
been, have to have, isolated our mind from the conceptions, all the mundane thoughts.
For that reason, great master Kamala Khyala explained, all those yesterday, we were six causes.
Those, the most of these five, five are more highlighted, more targeted to have the isolation of
the mundane conceptions.
Too many Bozines thought. That is really the, mainly it is. Of course, it is also the isolation of
the body, too, along with that.
So, that is the isolation of the mind from the conception.
If it's not that the mind is isolated from the conception, if a Bozine is the same as in the cities
, city or in a distant calm, difficult times, then we're really not going to get big benefit or
progress.
Therefore, we have to be isolated from mundane, concerning worldly activities, such as the desires,
greedies and all those things.
So, that we went yesterday, one after another, quite thoroughly, as great master Kamala Khyala
explained, and I thought, highlight each of those.
That is where, then it will bring the isolation of the Bozines, of the mind from all the
conceptions, conceptions.
With the isolation of the mind from the conception, what will the mind be going to think?
Now we're going to think more, all those beautiful that, our beautiful quality of mind, loving
kindness, compassion, joy and appreciation, poor boneless thoughts.
We went those one after another, I mean, you know. All that is not something that I'm told, I said,
and you only know that time.
That the first time, I'm not really saying that. We've all heard so many times, poor boneless
thoughts, increasing those, all those dungli practices, increasing those.
Those are mental activities. They are mentally, mentally analyzed, mentally performing.
It is a mind for activities. When you think and reflect our mind with those beautiful thoughts,
thought, you are not, we are not in that kind of regular, our mood of the, the suffrage attitudes.
Completely different zone, zone of the mental beautiful status. Truly we begin to shy the nature of
beauty of the minds, call it the mind, the Buddha nature of the mind.
If they begin to shy, reading, poor boneless dungli practices. All that, with that reflected in the
physical forms and then generosity, moralities, those all coming, one after that.
Again they all blended together with each other, not separated all. More gentle, more peaceful,
more calm, more soothing, more happy, more joy, more devotions, more synchronous connections,
connections with the Buddha, Dharma, Sangha, all those in life things.
Inspired by their activities, to our heart and mind is hard-headed, self, self, always self-
important attitude or self-important minds. Really inspired by their activities.
How so beautiful, how calming, how soothing, and so kind, so patient, so generous. Always ready to
help, support, yet always kind, complete with respect, with politeness.
Those are excellent qualities in human society too. Don't mention in Dharma, yet all those are good
qualities, good behaviors.
But that now is not just a pretend day or a joy that without moment, but it is really coming from
the heart. So sweet, it is also totally free from, free from self-important, all the expectations,
return something back there.
It is free, open, as sky, as sunlight, shining there. That is so wonderful and so sweet.
And with that, then in the Mahayana teaching, the very idea, Mahayana teaching, what is the
teaching? So now, three isolations. Isolation of the body, isolation of the mind from the money
conceptions, then in the Mahayana, in the teaching, it is mostly important, along with that, is
isolations of the self-important attitude of the mind.
That is the Mahayana. Why is bodhicitta? Bodhicitta, because bodhicitta is all living in such front
. Everyone is front. Even I talk roughly because of my compassion.
I talk bodhicitta about because of my compassion. Now I'm practicing, I actually like bodhicitta
because of compassion.
Therefore, now I'm going to do retreat. So, for that reason, also I'm going to do isolations of the
self-important attitude that we have all the time.
Self-important attitude or self-important concept and thought from the biggest times until now.
Now we're reversing that. We practice dongli, dongli practice. What is dongli practice? It's simple
to say what all the dongli practice means, free from our self-important thoughts. Self-important.
We are not number one. Code and bodhicitta, then sentient beings are number ones. Number one. No
more regular time. We are number one.
Or our self, or each of us, we are the number ones. We are "I", for example, capital "I". We are "I
" representing the "I", the capital, not the low case, high case.
That's what the really represent. But this is fine. The sentient beings are capital. Beings are
capital. "I" is small.
That is so free from the attitude of the self-important.
With that self-important, now free from that self-important, now we begin to practice.
Now I mentioned that cause, sixth cause, as a great master Kamala Shraddha mentioned, listed
clearly as he condenses it from the whole, the form of the opportunity, put that as a six.
This six, what I meant yesterday, is the cause. But it's not just a cause. It is how to maintain
our practices.
These six are how we're going to maintain our meditation and practices. This is what we're going to
maintain.
So this is the maintainer, okay, in that way. Maintainer, manual of the instructions.
And if we continue maintaining, it is also bring the fulfillment, successful. So it's instructing
for the successful how we're going to make the successful of our practice or our meditation.
That is what really is. This six is not just cause, then complete Kamala Shraddha. You give up that
. This we're going to keep continuing. That is six.
We're going to continue until we reach enlightenment. Or until at least we achieve the first
booming realization.
That, but that strength is then, when you reach it, positive booming for the same path, that is we
don't have to make effort according to the teaching.
Not too much. It continues, that pulse continue to go on. As what in the teaching mentioned,
sometimes you use example.
In ancient, of course, this ancient time. Ancient time, for example, with those pottery, clear pot
tery, there are special tools called wheel of the pottery makers.
Makers. When they come, in order to make the pottery there, and at the beginning of the time they
have to make effort to turn that wheel.
They have to turn once. Once they reach to the level, they don't have to turn all the time. It is
spinning. It is spinning and you're doing the jobs, the pottery jobs.
Similarly, at the beginning of the practice, in the Bodhisattva, it is like ultimate, you have to
make joyful effort.
Of the virtues, courage and commitment, determination, all that. Really keep the vigilance.
Vigilance with the relaxed and with the calm manance. Manance. Then it moves. It checks by itself.
It lift up by itself.
Then you can, in a way, enjoy the sweetness of that and keep that modern, not let it slow down.
Or not let it slow down, then it's six, what? Major. Great Master Kamachala Major.
That was six hours. Continue to maintain it. Continue to bring the fruit patience. Bring patience.
So that is what this six hours, that six calls we went yesterday, or maybe the day before yesterday
, I mentioned that with you.
So that is what. Now, once we have that calls, that six calls, conditions of calls that I called
Master Kamachala Major,
then we now begin to do the meditation, all the dhyam paramatas. Now, today, it has five obstacles
we should avoid.
That is five obstacles. What in the teaching? Great Master. Of course, again, he is a Buddha, a s
icha, personarized by the materials.
I get it. And it says the five are. Those five are the first is our familiar, familiar, familiar
figure or familiar companion, companion.
Who is that? The ladiness. Master or mis-ladiness? That is first. First is always with us. It's
like shadow. It comes like shadow.
So that is, in this case, that even though it's been long call of a companion, but it is obstacle.
So first is the ladiness. The ladiness. Second is then procating the instructions. Second is proc
ating the instructions.
And then third is sinking mind and wide mind. Sinking and wide. And then port is too much effort,
too much effort is port obstacles.
And the pit is too loose. Loose. On the other way, maybe I can translate it as port one is too
tight. And second is too loose.
So those are five obstacles. Well, we do the meditation or practices. Those are five obstacles.
That's it.
And what is the ability, he said, that is, those are the five. I translated that roughly into
English.
Oh, I'm saying roughly, but maybe that's the only way. I don't know. You all know that. You can
check that, clearly yourself there.
But those five are obstacles. First is the ladiness. The ladiness. That we went during joyful
effort, virtuous practice, the ladiness.
Those are the three ladiness. Three are good friend, companion, three ladiness. First is regular
ladiness, always companion ladiness.
Second is self-blaming ladiness. And the third is ladiness of the kind of glued with old habit
pattern activities.
So those are three ladiness. The fourth ladiness is a regular. That is just a regular, standard lad
iness.
So we don't want to do, kind of like, not motivate it. When it comes to do, we use some different
kind of terminology.
I don't have time, but I will do after work, this one, tomorrow, day after tomorrow, or this
afternoon I'm going to do, or this evening I'm going to do, kind of delay, delay.
And then we may be distracted and forget. Those are just a routine, regular, the easy, occurring
ladiness.
It shows up. And always ladiness. Then this ladiness, the second ladiness is like, this courage,
self-blaming.
Self-blaming, all this is my fault, I can do this, such as I don't have the capabilities, I don't
have, I know my, all those previous combinations and all that, I can do this.
I mean, all different things we use. But whatever that is, slowing down, again our practice and
meditation and completely jeopardizing that.
So that is the second ladiness. Third ladiness is old habit pattern. We went through that habit
pattern, kind of hanging over that,
indicated with that, forced and continually kind of like, just all that, one after another.
And just routine activity, what we used to do, watching movies or YouTube, on the telephones, all
those things.
And then plus more, more of those are the ladiness. So that is the first, first ladiness.
Second, that this obstacle, or those are the, I mean, the first obstacles of the meditation or the
practice.
Third, the second one is the pocket in the instructions, instructions, that what we received.
This pocket in the instructions, how to do, start the practices or the pocket in the instructions
during the practices.
We needed that, instructions, or our practice, forget our practices and forget them.
That is why happening because of the lack of mindfulness, mindfulness.
And we are so kind of out of space, mind, space, and then we are perfect.
We forgot our instructions, meditations, our instructions, all that.
And third one is, then sinking the mind.
I translate it, sinking mind. But mind, sinking means, means, it means sinking mind.
All mind is become very kind of pokey, low energy, and not clarity, kind of pokey, pokey, all those
are known as,
ching mai, pho, sinking mind. That is, again, obstacles.
And then second, the next one is gopa.
Gopa means, wild, scared, restless, agitated mind, mind.
And that is also obstacles for the meditations.
And fourth one is, then using so much antidotes, or so much effort, so much kind of forceful, so
tight.
That is also obstacles.
And the next one is, fifth one is, obstacles of the day, not, applying the antidote,
or not applying kind of making more effort to stay kind of more fulfillment, and to lose. That is
obstacles.
So those all are known as, five obstacles.
In the teaching method, the first two are, obstacles to start practices.
And which is, laziness, pocket and stockings is obstacle, particularly to start practices.
Of course, during the practices, there are also obstacles, but particularly it is obstacle to start
practices.
And then this third one, ching mind, gopa, sinking and wild mind,
as there were one in the teaching named.
So that is obstacles for the quality of the meditation, the practices.
Now you, for example, you didn't have the laziness, I put it like this way.
We don't have the laziness, that we avoided, and we did not forget our instruction.
We remember, and now I'm putting in practices.
Now in the practices, meditation, we are sitting on cushion, or in a chair, wherever we are, we are
.
But our mind, during that time, our mind is sinking, our mind is poking,
our mind becomes blue, and low energy.
What is that? That is obstacles for the quality of the meditation, or practice.
Even you are sitting on the meditation, practicing, our quality of the meditation is defective,
and it's staying at meditation, it's staying.
At the same way, during that time, when you are practicing time,
our mind is completely kind of like wild, and scared, and thinking about all the different things,
thoughts and emotions, thinking.
Then, even when sitting on the cushion, or in a chair, by delegating that practice,
for whatever that hour, the quality of the quality of our meditation, the practice is losted.
Also. So therefore, in the teachings, the third obstacle is particularly obstacle
during the quality of meditation, or the quality of the practices.
If we don't have those obstacles, during our meditation,
our mind is constantly calm and peaceful, then it's really called meditation,
called practices. It's perfect meditation, perfect practices.
And so then, at the last, the fourth and fifth obstacles.
In the teachings, there are obstacles to progress, to progress.
If we have too much forceful, it will slow down our achievement,
of the realization, of performance.
If it's too loose, also it will slow down.
So then what? Then he said, just write, write.
Not too much forceful, not too loose, but write, stand.
Write the stand. That is what really the teaching says.
So then it will bring beautiful progress, progress.
So that is what those are, the five obstacles of the meditations.
So now, for example, what we went through now,
we went through the cause of the meditation, of the practices,
good cause, that as spoken by Kamal Chela.
And then we went through the five obstacles,
as highlighted by the great master material or the ascenders,
that we went through.
Now it comes to the meditation, or the practices.
And into the practices, then in the teaching,
always, and we all know that, always good postures.
You do, have the good postures.
That is really the important, important.
So those things, postures, and as well as the other,
all the divisions of the, of the, the, the, the D'Am paramata,
I think we already, already went, went those divisions,
the three divisions of the D'Am, of course, into the D'Am paramata.
Last time, I think, oh, this time we went, I went,
but we, I talk again, and those things.
And, and of course, you all know these, what's called, post,
the positions, postures of the meditative, you all know.
But again, our, just a reprieve of our memories.
And then I talk those things later, later,
and the next time we, we'll be again made in Zoom highways.
Thank you very much. That's my talk.
Thank you, everyone. Thank you.
Thank you very much for participating.
And now we go to the right to the practice.
Practicer of the Bodhi Mena.